In this module, we're going to look at hardware management.
You might have wondered, Tim, aren't you going to discuss Device Manager?
Actually I am, but not until the second demo.
For now I want to start with system information,
and the way that I normally get to that is to right-click the Start button,
go to Run, and type msinfo32.
It's one of those muscle memory things for me.
The System Information tool hasn't changed much over
the years to be honest with you, and that's a good thing I think.
What we have is a System Summary by default that has
all sorts of good juicy information,
a lot of which would be a little challenging to
find otherwise within Windows 10.
For example,
how do you know whether your motherboard is using
UEFI firmware or the legacy BIOS?
Well it can tell us right here in the BIOS Mode property.
Well we're leaving nothing to the imagination.
Actually, instead of going to winver and the System Control Panel,
we can see here the OS Name and edition and the Version.
This is giving us the dot version, not the friendly 1709.
We get an inventory of our time and date settings,
the amount of physical memory we have, where our virtual memory file is,
some bits on TPM status, whether you have a trusted platform module or not,
and that's all just in the System Summary.
Notice that we have Hardware Resources.
There was a time, many years ago in earlier versions of Windows,
where if you were, for instance, installing a new card,
maybe an ISA or a PCI card,
ISA is a bus architecture that's long since gone the way of the dodo,
where you would actually have to worry about things
like interrupt request values, memory and I/O addresses,
and make sure that there's no conflicts.
I haven't had to intervene at that level with hardware for many years,
and I think that's a good thing.
Components is broken down by subsystem, Display,
Sound, Input, Network, as you can see here.
You'll see references to specific drivers and versions.
In the case of Display, you can see what our display Resolution is.
Here as I said is which driver is currently being used, along with its version.
And then we get from hardware into software where
we get a run of System Drivers, Environment Variables,
Network Connections, even Running Tasks,
as of the snapshot when this report was generated.
Now if those are some things,
those are some categories that I don't remember in earlier versions of Windows.
So we know that Microsoft is actively developing this tool.
You'll notice that in the Find,
we can do a quick filter on any keyword or process name.
There is so much data in System Information.
Now check this out.
This is incredibly cool.
It's one thing to be able to look at system information on your local computer,
but you can also, depending upon how your network is set up,
open the View menu and connect to a remote machine on your network.
In an Active Directory domain environment, this is pretty easy.
I'm going to choose dc1, which is a domain controller running on this network,
and of course there's many reasons and factors why the
communication might not take place.
Firewall might be the most common one.
So know that that capacity exists for remote administration, that's nice.
Something else I want you to see is that we can save our
system information to an NFO file, N-F-O.
This is devbox, and I'll save it on my desktop.
And notice it's going through everything and putting it in a special
format file that can be parsed by system information.
So the idea here is if on a remote machine you're unable to
connect to it directly over the network,
you could instruct the user or whoever is operating that local computer,
to generate an NFO file and get it to you,
and you can load it into your installation of System Information.
Now to do that, we would just do File, Open,
select the NFO file, and there it is.
So now it's showing us that we're seeing a System Summary from an NFO file.
Let me close that file to come back to the local machine.
Something else we can do is export this list.
Now, this is going to come out as a comma-separated value list.
So if I do report.
csv, save it to my desktop,
again it's going to drag through the entire list of tracked components here.
In case you're wondering what that delimited file looks like,
here you see it loaded into Excel,
and it's just a great big list of two columns divided into sections.
Okay, so that's the bottom line with System Information.
There's a command line version of that by the way.
Let me open up an elevated PowerShell console.
It's called systeminfo.
And if you run systeminfo space /?, that gives you the syntax help.
And there's some useful options here.
Being able to generate the result in different formats, table, list, or CSV.
You can specify a remote system, and even alternate credentials.
So systeminfo /S would be the local machine,
devbox, and if I want to create a CSV file with no headers,
it shows us some output on the screen, but also let me do a dir *.
csv.
Huh, it didn't give me a file in that output.
There's some more info that I probably need to look into that,
but anyway, you get the idea.
The beautiful thing about the systeminfo.
exe command is that this is scriptable.
So if you don't have the money or expertise or time to implement a
configuration management platform like System Center,
you could use PowerShell to run systeminfo against N number
of remote machines and generate reports for each one of them in any format that you want.